= Rack::Unreloader

Rack::Unreloader is a rack library that reloads application files when it
detects changes, unloading constants defined in those files before reloading.
Like other rack libraries for reloading, this can make application development
much faster, as you don't need to restart the whole application when you change
a single file.  Unlike most other rack libraries for reloading, this unloads
constants before requiring files, avoiding issues when loading a file is not
idempotent.

== Installation

  gem install rack-unreloader

== Source Code

Source code is available on GitHub at https://github.com/jeremyevans/rack-unreloader

== Basic Usage

Assuming a basic web application stored in +app.rb+:

  require 'roda'

  class App < Roda
    route do |r|
      "Hello world!"
    end
  end

With a basic +config.ru+ like this:

  require './app.rb'
  run App

Change +config.ru+ to:

  require 'rack/unreloader'
  Unreloader = Rack::Unreloader.new{App}
  require 'roda'
  Unreloader.require './app.rb'
  run Unreloader

The block you pass to Rack::Unreloader.new should return the rack application
to use.  If you make any changes to +app.rb+, <tt>Rack::Unreloader</tt> will remove any
constants defined by requiring +app.rb+, and rerequire the file.

Note that this causes problems if +app.rb+ loads any new libraries that define
constants, as it will unload those constants first.  This is why the example
code requires the +roda+ library normally before requiring +app.rb+ using
<tt>Rack::Unreloader</tt>.

However, if +app.rb+ requires more than a single file, it is more 
practical to tell <tt>Rack::Unreloader</tt> to only unload specific subclasses:

  require 'rack/unreloader'
  Unreloader = Rack::Unreloader.new(:subclasses=>%w'Roda'){App}
  Unreloader.require './app.rb'
  run Unreloader
  
When the +:subclasses+ option is given, only subclasses of the given classes
will be unloaded before reloading the file.  It is recommended that
you use a +:subclasses+ option when using <tt>Rack::Unreloader</tt>.

== Dependency Handling

If your +app.rb+ requires a +models.rb+ file that you also want to get reloaded:

  require 'roda'
  require './models.rb'

  class App < Roda
    route do |r|
      "Hello world!"
    end
  end

You can change +app.rb+ from using:

  require './models.rb'

to using:

  Unreloader.require './models.rb'

The reason that the <tt>Rack::Unreloader</tt> instance is assigned to a constant in
+config.ru+ is to make it easy to add reloadable dependencies in this way.

It's even a better idea to require this dependency manually in +config.ru+,
before requiring +app.rb+:

  require 'rack/unreloader'
  Unreloader = Rack::Unreloader.new(:subclasses=>%w'Roda Sequel::Model'){App}
  Unreloader.require './models.rb'
  Unreloader.require './app.rb'
  run Unreloader

This way, changing your +app.rb+ file will not reload your +models.rb+ file.

== Only Reload in Development Mode

In general, you are only going to want to reload code in development mode.
To simplify things, you can use rack-unreloader both in development and
production, and just not have it reload in production by setting +:reload+
to false if not in development:

  dev = ENV['RACK_ENV'] == 'development'
  require 'rack/unreloader'
  Unreloader = Rack::Unreloader.new(:reload=>dev){App}
  Unreloader.require './models.rb'
  Unreloader.require './app.rb'
  run(dev ? Unreloader : App)

By running the App instead of Unreloader in production mode, there is no
performance penalty.  The advantage of this approach is you can use
Unreloader.require to require files regardless of whether you are using
development or production mode.

== Modules

This reloader also handles modules.  Since modules do not have superclasses,
if you are using the +:subclasses+ option to specify specific subclasses, you
need to specify the module name if you want to reload it:

  Unreloader = Rack::Unreloader.new(:subclasses=>%w'MyModule'){App}

== Dependencies

To correctly handle modules and superclasses, if a change is made to a module
or superclass, you generally want to reload all classes that include the
module or subclass the superclass, so they they pick up the change to the
module or superclass.

You can specify the file dependencies when using rack-unreloader:

  Unreload.record_dependency('lib/module_file.rb', %w'models/mod1.rb models/mod2.rb')

If lib/module_file.rb is changed, rack-unreloader will reload models/mod1.rb
and models/mod2.rb after reloading lib/module_file.rb.

== Requiring

Rack::Unreloader#require is a little different than require in that it takes
a file glob, not a normal require path.  For that reason, you must specify
the extension when requiring the file, and it will only look in the current
directory by default:

  Unreloader.require 'app.rb'

If you want to require a file in a different directory, you need to provide the
full path:

  Unreloader.require '/path/to/app.rb'

You can use the usual file globbing to load multiple files:

  Unreloader.require 'models/*.rb'

If you want to load all files in a given directory you should just give
the directory path:

  Unreloader.require 'models'

The advantage for doing this is that new files added to the directory will be
picked up automatically, and files deleted from the directory will be removed
automatically. This applies to files in subdirectories of that directory as well.

== Speeding Things Up

By default, <tt>Rack::Unreloader</tt> uses +ObjectSpace+ before and after requiring each
file that it monitors, to see which classes and modules were defined by the
require.  This is slow for large numbers of files.  In general use it isn't an
issue as generally only a single file will be changed at a time, but it can
significantly slow down startup when all files are being loaded at the same
time.

If you want to speed things up, you can provide a block to Rack::Unreloader#require,
which will take the file name, and should return the name of the constants or array
of constants to unload.  If you do this, <tt>Rack::Unreloader</tt> will no longer need
to use +ObjectSpace+, which substantially speeds up startup.  For example, if all of
your models just use a capitalized version of the filename:

  Unreloader.require('models'){|f| File.basename(f).sub(/\.rb\z/, '').capitalize}

== History

Rack::Unreloader was derived from Padrino's reloader.  It is significantly smaller
as it cuts out a lot of Padrino-specific code, and it forces the user to manually
specify what files to monitor.  It has additional features, improvements, and bug
fixes.

== Caveats

Unloading constants and reloading files has a ton of corner cases that this
will not handle correctly.  If it isn't doing what you expect, add a logger:

  Rack::Unreloader.new(:logger=>Logger.new($stdout)){App}

Unloading constants causes issues whenever references to the constant are
cached anywhere instead of looking up the constant by name.  This is fairly
common, and using this library can cause a memory leak in such a case.

Approaches that load a fresh environment for every request (or a fresh
environment anytime there are any changes) are going to be more robust than
this approach, but probably slower.  Be aware that you are trading robustness
for speed when using this library.

== Implementation Support

Rack::Unreloader works correctly on Ruby 1.8.7+ and Rubinius.  It only works on
JRuby if you use a proc to specify the constants to unload.

== License

MIT

== Maintainer

Jeremy Evans <code@jeremyevans.net>
